# NPM (Node Package Manager)

#### Check version: `npm -v`

#### Initialize: `npm init`

Initialization creates `package.json` that stores enitre configuration of the project. It is a metadata file that describes the project's dependencies, scripts, configuration, and other details.

#### Install Dependencies/Libraries (e.g. Leaflet): `npm install leaflet` or `npm i leaflet`

Installing a dependency will

-> create `package-lock.json` (if doesn't exists already). `package-lock.json` is a lockfile that provides an exact, deterministic list of all the installed packages and their dependencies, including their exact version numbers. It is used to ensure that the same dependencies are installed consistently across different environments and prevent conflicts due to different versions being installed.
If you are working in a team, it is important to commit package-lock.json to your version control system along with your code so that all team members have the same dependencies installed. When another developer clones the project, they can simply run npm-install to install the same packages and versions specified in the package-lock.json file.

-> store Dependency in `node_modules` folder

-> updat `package.json` and `package-lock.json`

#### Installing all dependencies: `npm i`

When need to copy your project let's say from development to production or a developer needs a copy of your project then just copy your source code and `package-lock.json`. You don't have to copy `node_modules` folder. Firing `npm i` will download and install all the dependencies mentioned in `package-lock.json` and store them in node_modules.
